Reasons to Add Online Courses to Your Resume

Can this candidate add value to the company? – the most common question in a recruiter’s mind while hiring, and looking for different things as an answer to the same question.

If one considers himself/herself a strong potential candidate, it’s his/her duty to help recruiters reach the right conclusion. It may be a difficult task to set oneself apart from the crowd, but showcasing the completion of relevant online courses is one of the great starting points.

1. It makes for a better interview

Recruiters use interviews as a tool to gauge the value one can add to their company, and it’s important to set oneself apart from the other applicants. It’s not every day that a recruiter sees an online course certificate on a resume (though it is becoming more common). Adding relevant online coursework can stand out. It’s unique and invites conversation, so be prepared to answer questions.

2. It displays relevant and standout skill sets

Candidates often struggle to convey what value they can bring to a company. Speaking confidently and fluently about a skill set that one has developed can help guide recruiters in the right direction. Online courses on your CV conveys a clear-cut message of what one knows and what one can get done as an employee.

Online courses are a great way to showcase unique skills that set one apart from other qualified candidates. This is becoming increasingly important since more and more companies are looking for candidates with a diverse mix of experience or “hybrid skills”.

3. It shows character

Enrolling to an online educational course, in and of itself, is massively impressive. It portraits personal drive and discipline, curiosity, intellectual maturity, and a strong willingness to learn—all of which are important and impressive to recruiters.

Sometimes, it becomes difficult for recruiters to gauge these qualities, but it’s what they’re job is. They always want to see the willingness of a candidate to go the extra mile because that indicates passion, and passion indicates value and value are always appreciated by companies.

Bear in mind, though, that this only applies if you can talk about what you learned and how it’s relevant to the position.
But how should one go about adding online courses and programs to their resume?

One of the best ways to include online courses into a resume is by using a cover letter. It allows one to connect with a recruiter or hiring manager on a personal level. A cover letter is a great place to discuss the professional skills that one acquired and how they relate to the position. If one is submitting his/her resume electronically, he/she can link to the course profile.

Another way is to create an entirely new section on the resume, such as “skills and objectives”, “professional development” or “personal advancement”. One can also include his/her online learning experience in the education section of the resume. This can be especially useful if he/she is applying for a job that is not related to the degree.

NOTE:

Whichever way you choose, only include the courses that you completed or earned a certificate in and the major takeaways of each. Don’t sell yourself short, or don’t overdo it either. Be concise and make sure that everything you include is precise and relevant to the job.


